CPU:
(1) Program Counter(PC):
This contains the address of next instruction to be executed. Subroutines and interrupts modify the PC but in these cases the previous value is saved on the stack and restored later.

(2) Stack Pointer(SP):
When a subroutine is called the CPU must jump to the subroutine, execute the code there, and finish by returning to the instruction after the call. It must therefore keep track of the contents of the PC before jumping to the subroutine so that it can return afterwards.

(3) Status Register(SR):
This contains a set of flags (single bits).

Reset: Sequence of operations that puts the device into well defined state, from which a user's program ay start. A reset is generated when power is applied for the first time, if device detects a serious fault in hardware or software from which the user's program cannot be expected to recover. 

- MSP430 has 2 levels of reset	
- Power On reset: This is generated by following severe conditions related to hardware.
(1) Device is powered up. More generally, a POR is raised if supply voltage drops to so low a value that the device may not work correctly. [brownout detector]
(2) A signal on RST/NMI pin resets the device if the pin is configured for the reset function rather than non-maskable interrupt.
(3) Using Supply Voltage Supervisor(SVS). This is configurable, unlike the brownout detector.

- Power-up clear (PUC): This always follows a power-on-reset. It is also generated when software appears to be out of control in following ways:
(1) The watchdog timer overflows in watchdog mode.
(2) An attempt to fetch an instruction from the range of addresses reserved for peripheral registers or to read unimplemented memory.

- Clock System:
Clock module provides 3 outputs:
(1) Master clock, MCLK is used by CPU and few peripherals.
(2) Sub-System master clock, SMCLK is distributed to peripherals.
(3) Auxiliary clock, ACLK is also distributed to peripherals.


Upto four sources are available for the clock:
(1) Low-or high- frequency oscillator, LFXT1: Low frequency clock signal (32 KHz).
(2) High frequency crystal oscillator, XT2: Restricted to high frequencies.
(3) Internal very low-power, low frequency oscillator, VLO: Provides an alternative to LFXT1 when the accuracy of a crystal is not needed.
(4) Digitally controlled oscillator, DCO: Highly controllable RC oscillator that starts in less than 1uS in newer devices.

	- ACLK comes from low-frequency crystal at 32 KHz.
	- Both MCLK and SMCLK are supplied by the DCO with a frequency of around 1 MHz.  
